[Applause]
[Music]
allow me to be authentic to who I am the
show allowed me to do that so it's great
you better subscribe to this show
because you're missing out it's
absolutely unbelievable
it was a lot of fun I was really
impressed with the prep work he was able
to get into things that I actually care
about some people don't put in that type
of work and then know that he does that
not just for me but for everybody I
totally get why exist I totally get why
music continue to exist and I almost
didn't want to end
hi I'm Peter Diamandis everybody my name
is Jessica Matthews hey I'm dr. drew
gary vay-ner-chuk and you're watching
impact theory what's up this your boy
Wyclef Jean and y'all watchin impact
Theory let's get into it
I love Tom there's a man who is just on
a mission to find the best in humanity
and then make it known to the world it
was honest I've won the best for the
I've ever done in my life you know
allowing me to be authentic to who I am
to show allowed me to do that so it's
great you better subscribe to this show
cuz you're missing out it's absolutely
unbelievable
what is up everybody welcome to what
will hopefully be a rousing edition of
after impact I'm your host Tom bill you
and I am here with agent Smith mr. bill
you dude this one oh man I love me some
dr. Shefali me too he crushed yes she
crushed I was listening to the episode
on the way in and it's it's so good I
want to listen to it two or three more
times it's layered it's complex it
really requires you to sit with some of
these ideas which are very disruptive
yeah that's very counterintuitive
yeah loved it can't wait to get into
this one agreed all right welcome
everyone this is after impact the show
where we unpack the impact of this
week's episode with dr. Shefali the one
and only how was that that was good I
liked it made me think like should we do
like a Beastie Boy saying when you say
the impact like we do it together yeah I
was like this is the show where we go
deep into the week this week's episode
so please if you've seen the episode ask
your questions now this is a great time
to do it ask your questions to Tom what
he thinks about the episode what he
thinks about the ideas this is where
we're going deep so please do that
welcome everyone on Facebook welcome
everyone on YouTube we're now live on
both platforms so we're excited to have
everyone everyone here and we're gonna
dive into it in just a minute if you
feel like this content is bringing you
value please share it that helps us grow
the community that's our one ask and if
you haven't seen the episode highly
highly recommend it even if you're not a
parent even if you plan on never having
kids
this episode is more than about
parenting it's really about yourself
100% yeah so for a little background if
you don't know who dr. Shefali is she's
a world-renowned clinical psychologist
who specializes in integrating Eastern
philosophy and Western psychology so
she's also a keynote speaker she's
spoken at TEDx at the Kellogg School of
Business the Dalai Lama Center for peace
all over the world and she's the author
of three books the first being the
conscious parent another book called out
of control and then her latest the
awakened family
she teaches what is called conscious
parenting that's her idea and we'll kind
of get into what that means and let me
tell you her ideas and her episode all
right all right you soon we love you
sorry we'll see you in a second
it's after impact hopefully where all of
our technical woes have been solved and
I'm your host Tom bill you this is Agent
Smith mr. bill you and take it away
where are we what are we doing let's get
everybody back up to speed we are
unpacking the impact of this week's
episode with dr. Shefali who is amazing
if you haven't seen the episode go check
it out if you're a podcaster listen to
it on your commute home this one's
really really good full of some very
disruptive and interesting ideas do a
quick background on who she is and bear
with us YouTube we've already been
through this once before but welcome
Facebook if you feel like this content
is bringing you value at any point
please share that helps us grow the
community so she is a clinical
psychologist specializing in integrating
Eastern philosophy and Western
psychology she's a keynote speaker she's
the author of three books her latest one
is called the awakening awakened family
she teaches what is called conscious
parenting this is her idea which we'll
get into in a bit and let me tell you
she is full of hard truths and no easy
answers no question
and also just shout out she's got an
event going on is it this month it's
called evolve 2017 I believe it's this
month you go to dr. Shefali calm I'm
guessing to find out details we'll put
the link in elements perfect yeah she's
fascinating if and you said this earlier
it this is not just for parents by the
way I'm not a parent I plan to be a
parent and I found this to be amazing
yes alright so let's kick it off with my
first question which is whenever I feel
myself having a really strong emotional
reaction to something or pushing back on
an idea a little bit I know that there's
something there so I try to like really
sit with it so I think it's a thread
that you know I should usually pursue so
how can people before even getting into
this episode better open themselves up
to episodes like this or books or ideas
well I say the what I'll just dump the
readers prayer and before I go into any
book I say to myself I don't do it as
much anymore honestly because I'm so
primed at this point but I really used
to
and I would say I'm open to being
changed forever and for the better by
this book by the information in this
talk whatever and that just to remind
myself to be open to being changed and
it was important to me to recognize
whatever my skill set is now like he's
already taking me as far as it's gonna
take me and for me to go farther I have
to get better I have to learn more so I
so want to be changed by better
information that that really helps me
remain open coming into this one no
different but she really took me by
surprise and some very cherished and
long-held beliefs that I had she just
like kicking those doors down so it was
it was very very interesting but yeah
I'd literally just prime yourself by
saying something like that some
variation of that to remind yourself and
make it a part of your identity that
you're always open to being changed
that's awesome and is there any what's
one of those cherished and long-held
beliefs that she really turned upside
down for you well I'll give you the one
that I found most shocking and that was
when she said being a parent is not
about loving your child and I was like
what like it that one's that one's
pretty crazy but she breaks it down and
it is her answer and the episode is so
real that like you can't hear it
the only reason to push back is have you
triggered right yeah where you you don't
want to hear it because basically what
she said is that there's so much you in
the we like there's so many of your
desires to be loved back right which is
a nice simple one that I think most
people say but that's great but her
point is sure but that is about you and
if you can't recognize that there's a
conditional element to the relationship
that your love isn't this this sort of
what she calls high love that we talked
about and media know that words like
self-sacrificing that the day-to-day
grind I'm not saying like if the car was
coming I bet that that an overwhelming
number of parents would truly push a
child out of the way take the car 100% I
don't deny that for one second but the
day-to-day grind of being a parent like
your own ego is so tied up in it that
there really are conditions to love and
so not being a parent
full disclosure
but like that's very clear to me in my
relationship with Lisa that there's
conditions right my wife literally has
rules I can't cheat on her or beat her
seemed like pretty reasonable rules but
at the same time their conditions right
and so I know that there are limits to
that love that I have to abide by
certain guidelines in order to maintain
that so when she said like basically
this isn't just about keeping love on
your child that's not what this is I
found that really really interesting
yeah and it's interesting too because I
know you have talked about this on
relationship theory shout out to our
other piece of content that's on mondays
with Lisa you've talked about that
relationships I don't know if you've
used this word but in some ways are an
exchange or a transaction 100 right like
you're giving something else a exchange
of value exchange about friends actually
feels a little icky okay it is yeah it's
just that word feels yeah so I mean
you've that's something you've kind of
known for a while so I'm just did why it
kind of shocked you a little bit when
thinking about it from the perspective
of a parent loving a child is it just
because like culturally we talked about
that as parents love that children
unconditionally
yeah and putting it in the context of
who her audiences right so these are
parents that are gonna be picking up
this book they want to be better parents
and she broke down there's like I think
seven myths of parenting and that was
one of them and it really like she is
asking people to remove themselves from
a pedestal to remove themselves from
having any sort of vision of themselves
as purely altruistic of only looking
after their kids needs and you know this
is coming from a clinical psychologist
who spends all day every day with people
coming in who sincerely want to get
better but the answer every single time
is you're the problem
right like every single time which you
know resonates with me but hearing it in
the context of being a parent where it
was like this isn't the the high love as
she calls it is essentially non-existent
in your relationship with your child and
once you understand that it is
conditional once you understand that
your egos tied up and
then like we can get to what this is
really about and I like that was very
surprising because like you said when
you think of parenting were asked as a
society we're at and I'm putting
everything in air quotes they have no
idea why we're asked as a society to buy
into what is quite frankly in the
day-to-day grind a myth which is that
parents are it's the oh god how am i
blanking on this phrase there's
unconditional love right that that's
that's how parents especially mothers
get a lot of credit for this that they
come to the tables purely altruistic its
unconditional and she's saying that's a
total [__] and you just who else is
saying that like it and it's one of
those that it snaps you out of the like
it's culturally acceptable to as a
parent say that this is unconditional
love and we all go yeah yeah yeah like
100 percent if something like literally
if somebody had come on the show the day
before her and said being a parent is
about unconditional love
I'd be like absolutely and so for her to
come on and then when when she says it
isn't about unconditional love there's
all kinds of conditions all kinds of ego
and you hear and you're like uh-huh a
hundred percent like that resonates with
me so completely so because it resonates
with me completely because there isn't a
single relationship in my life that's
unconditional not one not with my
parents yeah not my wife not my dogs
like you yeah look you push it and you
try to go as far as you can it's not
like you're at all dismissive or not
like really trying to have a broad scope
of what you'll you know allow yourself
to go through to help that other person
but at the end of the day like we all
have those things if my wife betrayed me
that's it done that is this go so she
just is saying it yeah it was pretty
amazing yeah I love it
let's go into her her concept of
conscious parenting and kind of what
that means and then I have a couple
questions surrounding that but can you
just give a quick summary of her idea of
conscious conscious parenting yeah so
conscious parenting is being in the
moment being in the now stripping away
your own which by the way there are
entire libraries full of books
required to understand what people mean
when they say be in the now yeah that
guard tightly right yeah Eckhart Tolle
is but one of the voluminous amount of
works that have been done on the topic
because it's deadly simple and yet
everything about the human mind is
trying to pull you out of the moment so
don't pass judgments on what is she
calls it the isness of what is like just
that it is so the the best example she
gave is you're trying to have a
wonderful day on the beach with your
child but your child has diarrhea and so
now it's not just about the waves and
beautiful nature it's human feces
excrement and changing diapers horrific
smells and she was like if you get
annoyed with that and you're fighting
against it you exacerbate the situation
because the diarrhea is real there's no
way to make that not real so since it's
real rather than like pushing back being
annoyed that it's happening just deal
with it and so that's that that notion
that's tied in with reduction of ego
okay this isn't about me reduction of
fighting against what is and this is
something that that I've talked about
for a very long time which is don't deal
with the world the way you wish it were
deal with the world the way that it
actually is so that doesn't mean that
over the long run you don't try to make
changes and all of that just as you
would try to figure out what gave your
child diarrhea and try not to be back in
that position again but the fact is the
world is the way that it is right now at
this moment and if you can be conscious
as she calls it you there's a total
acceptance of what is and so now we're
going to address that we're not gonna
fight we're not gonna rub ego all over
it yeah and some of these ideas I think
that you're attuned to them and do you
think that's because of early on you
studied a lot of Eastern philosophy and
Buddhism I mean it's it's sort of tied
back to a lot of that right i you're
asking me something I find so
fascinating stop me if I totally derail
this episode but I got really really
into Eastern philosophy when I was about
16 and rocked it hard through most of
college both from a spiritual sense of
like it felt so right like if if when
you listen to Bruce
Leeteuk and you get the chills you're
just my kind of person so I would listen
to Bruce Lee be like water my friend
and oh and resonated with me so much
because he was such a badass so he wrote
this book called the Dow of Jeet Kune Do
which I read cover to cover absolutely
loved it and in there he has this sketch
of a Taoist warrior now Eastern
philosophy is known you know it's like
you imagine somebody sitting on a lotus
leaf and meditating right and so he had
this image of this badass [__]
with like this huge sword if I remember
right and I remember thinking yeah like
it's this collision of being like water
wanting to avoid the fights using your
understanding and your oneness with the
way that the world is but at the same
time not being a pushover and that
resonated with me so much so I'm going
hard on all that stuff and I don't know
how much of that like shaped me
fundamentally like I don't know right I
was 16 my brain is still developing your
brain doesn't finish developing till
you're 25 so has that laid like all this
groundwork in my life because I had a
moment where I realized that I was going
to so I at one point actually said I am
Taoist all right would not say that
about myself now looking back may have
been a little bit of youth talking yeah
but there was a moment in college where
I actively decided that I was not going
to pursue Buddhism because I didn't it
didn't resonate with me and I know what
comments are coming for me now it didn't
resonate with me to say that I'm going
to step out of the stream of life to
avoid the suffering by not wanting
wanting is one of the most intoxicating
things in my life and you will hear in a
good way and you will hear me talk about
you've got to know what you want like
there's got to be something that's
burning inside of you so I you can just
say that I don't get it and I'm okay
with that
but the way that it feels internally is
I really went hard on that it almost
certainly has really profound sort of
foundational impacts me that I have not
thought through literally you're making
me think about this for the first time
but want looking at it really studying
it both spiritually and intellectually
like in the framework of a college and
reading all
important texts about not not many
people are gonna take you very deep on
Taoism it's a little too niche but
people will take you really deep on
Buddhism so I studied Buddhism quite a
bit and actually at one point had
considered doing a minor in Eastern
philosophy like I went relatively deep
yeah and got to that point where I felt
like I actually understood what it meant
to no longer want and to root like
desire is the root of all suffering and
going yeah that's actually true but it's
also the root of some of the most
magical things that humans have ever
created because it clicks you into this
desire to do more to be more to push and
so every episode essentially opens with
the anti Buddhist credo which is you've
got all this potential and whether you
do something with it or not is really
the like the meaning of life to me so
it's fascinating it probably there's
something about that notion whether it's
her that's talking about it whether it's
loud whether it's Duong zu which is
somebody nobody talks about but was
probably one of my favorite people to
read about maybe put together a book
list for it you know what's interesting
oh where did I put at one point the
daodejing was either on a list that I
sent to somebody who was struggling with
like a really particular thing or I
don't know I told either a lot of people
or somebody about that because it is
that book is amazing and it definitely
like there echoes in what she talks
about yeah I'll stop there okay
there's so many questions I have for you
but I want to kick it over to our live
audience because you guys have a lot of
questions so thank you for being engaged
and participating and for showing up
today we'll start with YouTube Anthony
Moro says being that you had the
conversation with Lisa that you didn't
want to have kids and made the decision
how would you have have approached it
differently after learning from dr.
Shefali if we had had kids or wanted to
have kids
the other question I think the question
is your decision to not want to have
kids
would it have been a different
conversation with Lisa having oh oh and
I sort of had this question fencing did
it change your thinking I'm not having
kids at all no but it was fascinating
because she triggered my ego in the
episode and because she was so like
complimentary about whoa you're awakened
because you didn't have kids and I was
like yeah yeah I had and in real time I
was like look sucker this is like
exactly what she's talking about like
people get so sucked into their ego and
Here I am getting sucked into my ego
about the fact that I don't get sucked
into my ego enough to think that I can
overcome so the irony was not lost on me
let me assure you but would it have
would it have changed I don't know man
there's you get new ideas it might have
given me new analogies and stuff but
like one of the reasons I read in swarms
is dr. Shefali planted seeds right like
so i said in the episode she changed me
and researching it but it's always like
at the edges right like it takes a like
it takes a rough corner and smoothes it
out it's not like you can draw a line
and my life was fundamentally different
before I encountered her ideas and when
I encountered them after so there's so
many years of me contemplating children
and all of that that come up to dr.
Shefali that ye me again like five or
ten years from now I continue to engage
for their content I get drawn deeper
into a world I begin to make those ideas
my own then it's like you look back and
go oh that was actually a really
important seed that got planted like
when I say that reading the gunslinger
changed my life right I didn't realize
that at the time wasn't like I read it
was like everything is gonna be
different now
it was just I read it and thought whoa I
thought I hated reading this is actually
interesting which the the sum total of
that realization was I picked up the
next book it wasn't that Oh everything
is gonna be different now so but now
when I look back and it's easy you know
with hindsight to pick out this moment
so maybe ten years from now I'll be like
wow like really really deeply and oh if
I now went back and had that
conversation with least it would be so
different but if I were to right now
today for the first time have the
conversation with Lisa I would say look
she brings up a good point
I would liken it to the Aristotle or
Plato quote which I did try to look this
up by the way and I couldn't find the
answer easily and it's the only
impossible job is raising children I've
believed that for a long time the chaos
effect the butterfly effect is what it
seems like to me I would be armed with
more information from her with the
you're going to mess your kids up and
basically that everybody does it because
there's so much ego and that is a very
easy concept for me to grasp that Oh a
hundred percent like and that is the
reason ultimately that I well so there's
two reasons I ended up not having kids
one I'm very selfish and I want to live
my life and I don't want to make my life
about a child and then two I'm utterly
convinced that I won't enjoy having to
watch them suffer knowing that the
suffering is what will make them great
it's very easy for me to tell the world
that's the truth because it is the truth
and I don't try to eschew suffering in
my own life as we all know I lean into
suffering but to ask somebody else to do
that to make them a better person that I
just know my personality well enough
that be very hard for me yeah very
interesting I also want a bit of a
tangent here but I think this is
important so you just talked about how
it wasn't in the moment when you read
the gunslinger that you knew the
significance but looking back yeah I
think you're very good at looking back
on your life and finding meaning in
events and also constructing a narrative
that is then meaningful to you and
informs how you look at your present in
your future I don't think that comes
easily to everyone so how is there
anything you can recommend to people for
doing that and just what is the value of
doing that god that's a big question
okay so I'm gonna try to get this really
fast because there are some key points
so one we are meaning making machine so
I didn't find meaning I made meaning
you're gonna mythologize your own life
you need to it's important why does
fiction work fiction works because it's
a lie now what do I mean by that it
streamlines things so you're getting rid
of all the ancillary [__] that
doesn't really matter and you're
creating this narrative that gives you
like these markers for how to live in
the future
but if you don't have these really clean
lines these clean narrative lines the
messiness that is life makes it
impossible to interpret you just don't
know what to do next
the reason that we tell stories is one
to simplify the world okay
like I've talked to my employees and
stuff many times where if I'm up giving
a speech I'm giving you the mythologized
version of my life now
it's mythologized with intent it's the
only way for it to be usable to you as
an audience it's the only way for it to
be usable to me but if you come to me
and you're like I'm really struggling
with XYZ emotionally and Tom I'm looking
at your life and I'm just thinking like
it's it's been like so incredible and
you've always made the most out of
everything then I say don't get caught
up in the mythology let me give you some
of the really [__] ugly moments where
it was like clumsy and weird and things
happen like the timeline was [__]
bizarre so that in that moment it's like
let yourself off the hook stop trying to
think that your life is going to be like
a movie it's not your job is to create I
almost said find your job is to create
the movie from your life to figure out
where did I go right where did I go
wrong what are the things that I need to
learn from what's the moment because in
three acts structure I remember if
anybody's seen the movie I think it's
descent I hadn't watched a horror film
in a long time my wife put it on my wife
and I put it on we're about to watch it
the credits are coming up and I said I
promise you they're either gonna be
having a party or laughter will be the
first thing you hear and of course the
blaster is like the first even before
you see people you hear them laughing
now how did I know that because you've
got to start from about as far away as
where you're gonna end as humanly
possible so in horror films it usually
starts on levity it starts on a joke it
starts on something funny then there's
gonna be a moment like at the peak of
act I forget where it is and I really
need to look this up about to become
very important to us but it's either at
the peak of act 2 I think it is peak go
back to where it just seems impossible
there is far away from accomplishing
their task as ever and so finding like
knowing that in your own life there
gonna be those really ugly moments where
success just seems absolutely hopeless
and your
job now is to still find a way to claw
back from that and just knowing that
like oh that's where I'm at and the
narrative can be very reassuring that
you know this is how it's supposed to be
this is like the structure of the hero's
journey so getting to that streamlined
version which makes things a lesson
which allows them to become codified
which allows you to learn from them
build on top of them and grow that's
that's the point of using narrative
fiction mythology in your own life super
critical it was a great answer thank you
let's go back to our live audience and
let me just welcome you again if you're
just tuning in this is after impact the
show where we unpack the impact of this
week's episode with dr. Shefali which if
you haven't seen this is one you need to
see or listen to or whatever you can do
to get your hands on it and probably a
couple times because it's deep let's do
a Facebook question this is from this is
from Rizwan Missoni hey Tom and agent
Smith how do I an adult son heal my
relationship with my parents when it has
been completely destroyed we have a big
cultural and generational gap all right
here's my honest truth one you have to
ask does it really matter and I don't
know that it does and so if it is a
wildly dysfunctional relationship with
people who are completely closed down
and are and I don't know right I don't
know if maybe he's the problem but
assuming that that wouldn't always be
the problem yeah he's always it's all
his fault right so if he wants to
reconcile he's only gonna have to look
at himself for sure for sure but it
takes two to tango right so if the
parents are 100 percent completely
uninterested in in engaging in a
meaningful dialogue at some point in
just wasting your time so that's the
truth because I don't I fully recognize
that my parents are more meaningful to
me than most people simply because
they're my parents but at the same time
like if they're so dysfunctional as to
be dragging you down you really have to
ask
is it worth engaging and maybe the
answer is not and I honestly don't pass
a moral judgment on that now assuming
that you want to have a relationship
then you're gonna have to own it's all
my fault like meet them with compassion
I'll just promise that's the first step
you're not gonna change them so fully
fully embrace that people have to want
to change
I only sort of believe that by the way
but it looks like this the amount of
time and energy that you would have to
put into changing somebody who does not
want to be changed is so unbelievably
massive that I do not recommend it and
impact Theory is literally my attempt to
change people who don't want to be
changed which is why it's at the
cultural periphery of storytelling
because that's the only way to inset
people so you can imagine like I'm
having to build a whole studio to change
people that don't want to be changed so
just putting that effort into somebody
because they happen to be my parent does
not make sense now the the wise path I
think if you've decided these are people
on one of my life no matter how
destructive whatever and I think that's
also a completely valid choice and I get
it and there is something intrinsic
about that we want that connection with
our parents so truly no judgment but
meet them with compassion so that you
can enjoy your time with them don't
think about trying to change them merely
think about how do I enjoy a
relationship where I meet them where
they are so your parents are where they
are they have the beliefs that they have
and so you've got it if they're like
judging you and excuse me if they're
judging you if they're pushing you to
live a life that just absolutely does
not resonate you've got to figure out
what that tactic is here's the tactic
that I use so let's say that you're my
father and you are like I can't believe
you are pursuing business like that's
ridiculous what are you doing and I
would just say I totally hear you and I
fully respect that that makes sense to
you I'm just letting you know the game
that I'm playing is neuro chemistry and
I will at all times act in accordance
with that and so you've got two choices
you can say that to me every time we
meet and look back historically and see
how like much has that helped our
relationship has it changed my behavior
I think the answer to both is no
alternatively you can meet me where I'm
at with compassion we can hang out and
really enjoy each other for where we are
and the things that we love and all of
that I really do value having a
relationship with you I want to continue
but I just want to let you know like I'm
going to live my life no matter what you
say so yeah and I'm being a little bit
cheeky in my delivery now and I was
tempted to push it even farther but I
would I would have that conversation
with respect but I would lead by example
I would show them how I want them to
treat me probably for a very long time
before I had the talk that I just had
like in the beginning I would just
deflect I totally hear you respect and
this is a conversation my wife and I
have had be like water my friend like
you can try to push me in any direction
you want and like water it just moves
out of the way like there's nothing left
to push so I would I would be so
compassionate and impervious to the
slings and arrows that they throw at me
I would not let them in any way shape or
form influence how I think and feel
about myself so one thing that you have
to do we give we give everyone the
authority to influence our self-esteem
and the vision that we have of who we
are and once somebody is no longer
helping to build me up I remove that
right from them now that's really hard
so let's make this the hard question to
answer what do you do when you have
tremendous respect for your mom your dad
whatever whomever that person is you
respect him to the ends and you realize
they don't respect you how do you deal
with that one that's advanced class [__]
but dude when you get to the point where
you can respect somebody who doesn't
respect you based on just like the what
you see them do is impressive to you and
is something that you want to do and be
able to do and in that fully respect
this person recognize that they don't
respect me but I've removed this one
keystone element which is they no longer
have the right to influence how I feel
about myself so and it is it is a purely
tactical psychological thing where if
you have to imagine yourself like
pulling that card out or that pin or
like whatever it is you need to imagine
or say to yourself so that that person
no longer has the right do it and obsess
over it and honestly like I believe that
you can transcend that but if every time
you encounter them they make you feel
worse about yourself I go back to the
first point that I made which is you
cannot be
period well it was great this kind of
leads into a question I had she says was
this a quote from the episode half of
the battle is that we don't accept our
child is not our fantasy and this goes
into her whole notion of parents don't
really love or don't really accept the
children for who they are and I wanted
to see because I know this is all about
parenting and some people are feeling
like maybe it doesn't apply but is there
a way to apply some of this logic to
just life in general so what are your
thoughts on saying if we were to remove
that word child and say half of the
battles we don't accept life is not our
fantasy what would you think about
something like that wow I think you'd
change things pretty fundamentally when
you do that so let me answer both so if
recognizing that your kid let's say that
you're a high achiever and you have a
kid who is truly truly average and they
a they have no real interest in
achieving at a high level and B maybe
they can't achieve they're just not
there they don't have it that to me is
you've got to understand that your child
is not a reflection of you and that
that's a human being and if you really
do love them then meeting them with
compassion and showing them nothing but
love and not trying to change them but
make them feel good like that to me like
I want people around me to feel better
about who they are when they're around
me than they do when they're not and I
think that a is one of the the most
amazing gifts that we could ever give
somebody from an authentic place right
now faking it but you find those things
that resonate and you really make them
feel good about those things that that
you really have found in them that are
worth celebrating and you celebrate that
and you're just there right you're not
you're not judging shaping anything
you're just there with them so that's
what I would do if there were my child
now if it were life and recognizing that
life is not your fantasy I really
believe that you have the ability to
shape life and because life is some
nebulous thing out there that
essentially does not
[__] about you I don't feel like I don't
meet life with compassion right so you
can talk about her isness meet life as
it is and I totally agree with that but
I meet life as it is to find the way to
bend it and shape it to my reality that
is why I tell people deal with the world
the way that it is not I'm not saying
accept it leave it alone I'm saying
recognize how it is and in that you can
find the hooks that you need to now make
change but if you don't first accept the
truth of where it's at you can't ever
hope to shape it but I believe that
humans really really have the ability to
shape the world around them and if you
want to make something great-grand if
you want to play in a world stage if you
want to make something great grant
happen play in a world stage then you
you need to be aggressively prepared to
figure out the way that the world works
and then go after those points that you
have some leverage over and start making
change so it is fundamentally different
how it approach when it's a human versus
my life that's great and I was really
hoping you'd go into that because one of
the things I think one of the themes of
this episode is sort of like she said
being in the moment accepting what is
around you and I wanted you to be very
clear about your position on acceptance
versus like striving and pushing towards
something that is a goal of yours and
you can kind of do well you're doing
both in a sense but you're not you're
not just accepting things and stopping
but you're accepting something as it is
and then figuring out how like you said
you bend it to your will or you change
it right really important do a couple
shoutouts
lento thomas from india what we got
Georgina Egan from Ireland and Alex
national today yeah and Alex Lee our
Denis Leo Dini
from Verona Italy whoa we're all over
let's do another question from the
audience let's go over to YouTube thanks
again for everyone showing up and asking
your questions and for watching the
episode in advance it really means a lot
to us let's see can we go can we can you
please go a little deeper on what dr.
Shefali said regarding creating boundary
such as around bedtime how would you use
that to deal with their poor choices
regarding tasty food or choice of
friends so here's where here's where
like I can I'll give you two answers one
I'll tell you where she's coming from
and then two I'll tell you what I would
actually do and remind everybody that
I'm not a parent for a reason so what
she is saying is that diet is probably
the perfect one the child's brain is not
formed and so there has to be guidelines
and there's let's say a universe of food
that you think is acceptable for them to
eat some of which they like and some
they don't so making sure that you help
them find the things that they want
rather than forcing them to eat green
beans which was the example she actually
gave rather than saying like I have
dominion over them and I can actually
force them see like literally grab them
open their mouth cram the food or use my
parents style which was you sat there
until you ate your food and so it was a
waiting game and I remember many a night
eating cold a stew that was nasty
because I hated stew and my parents
essentially heckling me saying it's only
getting worse with every passing minute
so eventually you plug your nose you
throw a tantrum but you end up eating
the food so she's saying don't do that
instead like what's that world how do we
help the child have their own sense of
self be able to make decisions within
the realm of what is acceptable in the
example that she uses in addition to the
green beans was bedtime right so if you
want your kid to bed at 7:30 but really
does it make like is the world gonna
come crashing down if they don't go to
bed until 9:00 not really so try to like
work with them to get them to go to bed
and hiding in between some of what she
said was the notion that you're
essentially Jedi mind-trick in them she
said you start working on them at 5:00
to make sure the terror in bed you know
and and she's very realistic about
you're deploying the strategies of
having more developed intellect more
experience to Shepherd them in the right
direction without without it resorting
to do it because I said or there's some
elements of force or whatever all right
so
that's dr. Shefali I don't have the
patience for that [__] so and this is
one of the reasons I'm not a parent so
for me it would literally have been
without her wonderful insights it would
literally have been like these are the
rules and the inhuman amount of
consistency that I would pull with it
would just be insanity so I find that
one of the things that children really
respond to is I know exactly what the
rules are
so Agent Smith came to me not long ago
and said Tommy dogs bark too [__]
much and so it's really beginning to
grate on people and I thought I think
that's a really fair criticism and so I
know what needs to be done and the
answer is I just have to be inhumanly
consistent and I haven't been because
I've been prioritizing the business and
focusing on all that but now you're
telling me that essentially my children
are slowing the business down because
it's such a distraction so now literally
just today people coming which is always
the thing that freaked wookie out people
coming in and out of the door and she
would just go crazy been so consistent
if she barks she gets locked up to now
the point where if she can't help
herself and she barks she'll put herself
in timeout but she's absolutely
hilarious but today she was perfect and
I started noticing that every time
someone would come in and she would be
quiet she would run up to me and want to
be picked up because she's like I want
my cuddles and my attention I did the
right thing right and so that was really
amazing and that resonates with me and
so I like to say here here's the game
that we're playing in this house this is
how things were done and doctor she
probably would have a seizure by the way
this is not at all what she thinks
should be done I'm just being honest
about where I'm at in my development or
non-development yeah
so yeah rules strict predictability meet
those rules all will be well now when it
comes to softer things like what do you
want to do what do you want to become to
me that's a process purely and so I
would help the child do the work of
encountering a lot of things seeing
which ones are interests help them
develop those into fascinations and then
develop those into a full-blown passion
understanding mission all of that
and I I think that one of the biggest
things is the danger for me would be in
rebelling against me the child is going
to rebel against all things sort of
effusive in language deeply
philosophical so I would net like the
way that I'm talking I would never do
that with a kid my kid they're not gonna
listen right that's just the way it
works probably because I'm an I'm so
unconscious that I would just be pushing
them into that they'd be rebelling
against the rules and so one way to
rebel against me would be to say I don't
want to hear that long-winded [__] so
you know fair enough so I wouldn't use
that tactic like I can already predict
that so I wouldn't use that tactic I
would really try to just make sure they
were encountering a lot of stuff and
then make it very clear to them that
life has consequences so for every
choice you make there will be some
consequence to that but at any time like
you could drop out fail and everything
but at the end of the day the only thing
that matters is can you get so good that
you can't be ignored so you know work on
that get that good follow the things
that are you know really really
interesting to you and I won't keep
going on that it's a particular
fascination for me as I see it play out
in the lives of people that I love and
care about but at the end of the day her
notion of guardrails versus draconian
enforcement is I think she's on to
something definitely and let me just say
with wookie it has been a beautiful
transformation I'm Samantha nice work
there this morning we came in and she
was just quiet as can be you know just
hanging out consistency works definitely
all right let's see here I have a
question about so I want to I want to
understand like we touched on this a
little bit but just the you know she's
so big on being present here now into
the moment and with whatever it is that
shows up how much of this thinking
around sort of the now and presence
plays into your own mindset these days
so here's the thing I think that the
power of now which if I'm not mistaken
is the exact title of today's book
it's like a it's an important concept
and I think that it lays some
foundational things in your mindset to
recognize the only thing that's real is
this moment literally this and so a
thought experiment that I started doing
with myself was what if you literally in
this breath were turned on in the matrix
and everything up to this very breath
were implanted stories and memories to
give you the context to move forward and
if that's true then assume that that's
all malleable and change the story as
you need to in order to move forward now
that is not what Eckhart Tolle meant
when he wrote that book but that was a
huge take away from me so really
understanding that that you know if if
this gets really complicated with like
quantum mechanics and what the what time
really is and all of that and I actually
find that so interesting but I will stop
myself from going down that path but
hint towards future content something I
really want to see come to fruition so
if time is a line and we are simply like
this consciousness that you could sort
of slide around that timeline that to me
is it it becomes really clear that we're
chemical processing plants that we are
content context and aspirations and that
tension between where we've come from
and where we want to go is what defines
how you interpret this very moment but
because of the way that the human body
is constructed you've got the
sympathetic nervous system the
parasympathetic nervous system or fight
and flight rest and digest and that you
can alternate in any given moment
between those and it will color
everything about your perception about
what's going on so all of that I think
is very important but ultimately
influences more than anything it just
influences my strategies for how I get
where I want to go so it's accepting
that things are the way that they are
it's accepting that the human mind works
way that the human mind works it's
accepting that past events
color the present especially when mixed
with future desire like all of that
became very clear and useful in a new
way once I realized the only real thing
is right here right now but to me it as
that explanation hopefully makes clear
it was just another access point to
manipulating my own brain chemistry so
I'm not gonna fall prey to long term
depression because I understand that I
understand that interplay of the past
and the future and and how they were
coming together with neuroanatomy and
brain chemistry to create a certain
state and that that state is by
definition transient great thank you
here's a question from Zack Vaughn what
do you think is active on on Facebook
what do you think she would say doctor
for Charlotte dr. Shefali would say is
the most noticeable or common example of
conditional love that most parents would
argue so what element is conditional
that most parents would say is
unconditional that you're gonna give me
that interpretation I think so yeah
[Music]
well the one that she mentions in the
book gave me heartache for the father
that had accept it which is that he
doesn't accept his son for being average
and he was like what are you talking
about of course I do
but in reality it does trigger your ego
I look for instance I am and in anybody
that watched the 24 hour live it was
really pissing me off that Wilkie was
barking and nobody was putting the
hammer down on her so the problem is if
I'm not here she'll bark again because I
have been the consistent authority
nobody else is consistent but me other
people do it they're not consistent so
I'm the only one that she's like she'll
look to me to see like is he here did he
see me and if she makes eye contact with
me that's when she'll put herself away
so when she was barking I felt that it
was a reflection on me that I haven't
been good enough consistent enough to
get that dog to not bark so during life
it was winding me up because it felt
like dude I'm better than that right but
it was about me
hundred percent which is why it was like
triggering me so for any parent to see
their child in any way other than as a
reflection of them I think would take a
lot of work I think that's the default
setting so just like my parents are very
proud of me why because my success is a
reflection of them like a hundred
percent that's how they see it right
sure and so when it's like a good thing
nobody really stops to question it
but when it's a bad thing I think that
it ends up causing them to like want to
jumpstart the child because it's like
hey you're a reflection of me but they
they want to believe that that's not
true because it is ugly it's ugly to
think that I'm a little bit ashamed when
you're not living up to your potential
right that's not like no one would ever
just say it no one had ever come up to
the kid be like look I'm gonna be honest
with you you're making me look bad in
front of the other parents right because
it's sort of universally recognized as
ugly so even though it's true now they
have to like squish it down and act like
no no I just want the best for you so I
think parents have pushed back really
hard against that and it's interesting
bringing in the darkness so I think you
would tap into that not being able to
let's use the wiki example have her act
in the way that you'd want her to
because you say you haven't been
consistent enough or trained her enough
or whatever and I would in your thinking
you would use that then to draw upon
that as like inadequacy or you haven't
done enough to push harder and today
absolutely right
so those it's weird to be seen because
you're a hundred percent correct that is
exactly how I would think and how I'd
react and that was so when and I hope by
the way speaking of ego that I get a lot
of credit for the fact you came to me
you had to be vulnerable you took a big
[__] risk to say to my face hey your
dog barked so much which by the way you
didn't say it like that but you know me
I like to take things like as
aggressively and binary as humanly
possible you were very diplomatic but
that was the moral of the story and in
that moment because of my belief system
it was like this crashing weight of why
did I have to wait
until somebody said it I knew it was a
problem and so a [__] like pointing
at myself why'd you wait B you know he's
right and C it's entirely your fault and
you just haven't been disciplined enough
and I used that to get the inhuman level
of consistency that had to happen every
time no matter what was going on to stop
her and sure enough as the Dog Whisperer
Cesar Millan will tell you that
consistency worked and now she's quiet
now it's the price for freedom freedom
is eternal vigilance so I can't stop
like it's always gonna be there always
gonna be there otherwise you know after
a couple days she'll realize oh I can
bark because it's so in her like she
she's funny I won't derail in talking
about my own child but yeah she wants to
bark one of the myths of dr. Shefali
what is it miss a parenting I think she
has the myths of parents yeah she says
that there are no good or bad children
yeah do you think what would she say are
they're good or bad parents would she
say
yeah what would she say she didn't
here's my gut instinct that she would
meet the parents with the same
compassion that she meets a child so she
would say don't put the the value
judgment of good or bad on that there's
only conscious and unconscious and that
we should strive to be unconscious
because otherwise in her words you're
you're feeding into that cultural like
problem which she referred to as
violence the violence of separation and
all and I and I think she means literal
violence but you know when you preach
bigotry cultural price to in essence
unintentionally denying your child from
becoming who they were meant to be I'll
keep that in air quotes because for
though you know that gets replaced by
the things that parents are putting into
that container so do you believe we all
have an essence you sort of answered
that already I how about this yeah I
think we have an essence I don't think
anything was meant
to be because mint implies there's some
something over watching that's like
ordained you was something that your sub
host become or do or whatever but humans
are wired right so no there aren't any
humans that come out and have the
predilections of a giraffe right it just
doesn't happen
so we are wired like there are there's
pre programming to the structures of our
brains to the way that I mean think
about puberty it's so predictable right
so there are certain mechanisms that
kick in certain hormones start flowing
through your blood streams there's a
predictable response to those hormones
so like all of those things are real and
I'm not trying to discount any of that
when I say that you're not meant to be
but despite that the number of ways that
you can go is right now beyond our
ability to predict so you can't look at
a child and say this is what they're
meant to be it's going to be a collision
of all the things that happen to them so
even if that child were raised by a
totally conscious person they are a
social animal that has pre-wired desires
the desire to fit in the desire to
connect right and so if their behavior
leads them to be disenfranchised by the
group they will be the pre-written
response to that will be insecurities
will be fear because from an
evolutionary perspective the people that
didn't give two shits about fitting in
either had to be able to perform better
than anyone else so that the group still
needed them so there was connection
based on that and that's something we
don't talk a lot about but dude the
people that say they don't care look at
them and either they're lying let's
start with that or they're really
[__] good at something that makes
them feel good about themselves and it's
that confidence which allows them to not
care about people but all of a sudden if
they had to rely on other people and
people were you know judging them
pushing them away unhappy with what they
were doing they would either just go off
and and you know go into a dark brooding
place or they would begin to adjust
their behavior so it's like just having
a conscious parent does not mean that
you don't have
those desires to connect and all of that
which are still gonna drive a massive
amount of behavior awesome we only have
a few more minutes left and we have a
hard out at 11 cuz we have a call so one
last question what would you say to
someone a parent who watches this
episode and says this just isn't
practical I would say there's always a
reason to shut a new philosophy down and
there's only one reason to remain open
to a new philosophy and that's that it
can really make you better if you really
like you don't have to take in
everything dr. Shefali says and say I'm
gonna make this all my own but whenever
I encounter a new idea especially ones
that trigger me I stop and think there's
something here to your point earlier and
then what can I learn from this what is
usable what's great about this and I
think if you go in and I think a
tremendous number of people shut her
down because it's so counterintuitive
and so out of left field but if you open
yourself up and not judge yourself right
like don't worry about this means that I
have been a bad parent which is how
people come at it it's not saying that
it's just saying there might be tools in
this Arsenal that you can now use to be
even more effective to be better to help
your children live a more happy and
fulfilled life to help yourself live a
more happy and fulfilled life and I
think virtually anybody has some nuggets
that you can take away that are just
really really powerful and man there's
no exception here so I find that as a
life strategy to say this isn't
practical and dismiss it without really
asking like what's usable here it's not
effective so you're closing yourself
down be open see what's usable try some
of it really explore it and then if it
just like it isn't resonating it doesn't
work whatever hey fair enough but
especially with dr. Shefali I think
there are absolutely brilliant ideas in
there that are unbelievably fresh and
really really important in terms of
their usability awesome well that's all
the time we have for today
all right guys thank you so much for
joining us for this episode of in after
impact and if this brought any value to
you please do share this how we grow the
community that's incredibly incredibly
meaningful to us it is a weekly show so
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and don't forget the dr.
Shefali has an event going on right now
called evolve 2017 check out our website
link in the comments go check that out
this woman is phenomenal she's amazing
and whether you agree with everything or
not she will change you if you let her
alright guys until next time be
legendary
take care
[Music]